# (17) Images clipped by coastlines

This example demonstrates how \myreflink{coast} can be used to set up clip paths based on coastlines.
This approach is well suited when different gridded data sets are to be merged on a plot using different CPTs.
Merging the files themselves may not be doable since they may represent different data sets, as we show
in this example. Here, we lay down a color map of the geoid field near India with \myreflink{grdimage},
use \myreflink{coast} to set up land clip paths, and then overlay topography from the ETOPO5 data set
with another call to \myreflink{grdimage}.

We also plot a color legend on top of the land. So here we basically have three layers of “paint” stacked
on top of each other: the underlying geoid map, the land mask, and finally the color legend. This legend
makes clear how \myreflink{grd2cpt} distributed the colors over the range: they are not of equal length
put are associated with equal amounts of area in the plot. Since the high amounts (in red) are not very
prevalent, that color spans a long range.

For this image it is appropriate to use the **shade** option in colorbar so the legend gets shaded, similar
to the geoid grid. See \myreflink{Of Colors and Color Legends} to learn more about CPTs and ways to draw color legends.


\begin{examplefig}{}
```julia
using GMT
GMT.resetGMT() # hide

Cgeoid = grd2cpt("@india_geoid.nc");
Cgray  = makecpt(cmap=150, range="-10000,10000", nobg=true);
sealand(grdimage, "@india_geoid.nc", (region="@india_geoid.nc", shade="+d", proj=:Merc,
                                      cmap=Cgeoid, title="Clipping of Images"),
        grdimage, "@india_topo.nc", (shade="+d", cmap=Cgray), shore=0.5)
colorbar!(pos=(inside=true, anchor=:TR, offset=(0.8,0.2), size=(10,0.5), horizontal=true),
          cmap=Cgeoid, xaxis=(annot=5, ticks=1), ylabel=:m, shade=true)

# Add a text paragraph
t = ["@_@%5%Example 17.@%%@_  We first plot the color geoid image"
    "for the entire region, followed by a gray-shaded @#etopo5@#"
    "image that is clipped so it is only visible inside the coastlines."]
text!(mat2ds(t, hdr="> 90 -10 12p 8c j"), paragraph=true, fill=:white, pen=:thinner,
      clearance=(round=true,), offset=(-0.25,0.25), font=(12,"Times-Roman"), justify=:RB, show=true)
```
\end{examplefig}
