- **Tm** or **compass** : -- *compass=([map=true, inside=true, outside=true, norm=true, paper=true,] anchor=refpoint, width=width, [dec=(dec, dlabel), justify=code, labels=labels, rose\_primary=pen, rose\_secondary=pen, offset=(dx,dy)])*\
   Draws a map magnetic rose on the map at the location defined by the reference and anchor points: Give the reference point on the map for the rose using one of four coordinate systems: (1) Use **map=true** for map (user) coordinates, (2) use **inner=code** for setting **refpoint** via a 2-char justification code that refers to the (invisible) map domain rectangle, (3) use **norm=true** for normalized (0-1) coordinates, or (4) use **paper=true** for plot coordinates (inches, cm, etc.). You can offset the reference point with **offset=(dx,dy)** in the direction implied by **justify=code**. By default, the anchor point is assumed to be the center of the rose (MC), but this can be changed by using **justify=code** where **code** is a 2-char justification code (see `text` for list and explanation of codes). Note: If **outside=true** is used then **justify** defaults to the same as **refpoint**, if **outside=true** is used then **justify** defaults to the mirror opposite of **refpoint**. Use **width=width** to set the width of the rose in plot coordinates (in inches, cm, or points). Use **dec=dec** to assign the magnetic declination or **dec=(dec, dlabel)** to set **dlabel**, which is a label for the magnetic compass needle (use "-" as **dlabel** to bypass labeling). With **dec**, both directions to geographic and magnetic north are plotted [Default is geographic only]. If the north label is a star `*` as in *dec=(1,"W,E,S,`*`")* then a north star is plotted instead of the north label. Annotation and two levels of tick intervals for both geographic and magnetic directions default to 30/5/1 degrees; override these settings by appending **annot=(...,...,.)**, and enter six intervals to set both the geographic (first three) and magnetic (last three) intervals. Label the cardinal points W,E,S,N by adding **label=lab** where **lab** is your own four comma-separated string to override the default. Skip a specific label by leaving it blank. The **rose\_primary=pen** and **rose\_secondary=pen** modify the pens used to plot the outter and inner circles of the comapss. A number GMT default parameters control pens, fonts, and color. See `Placing-dir-map-roses` and **box** on how to place a panel behind the scale.